README.md, before:

# Headphone-Decibelmeter

A Python-based utility that monitors and displays your headphone output levels in real-time by interfacing with the Orban Loudness Meter.

---

### Prerequisites
Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

* **Operating System:** Windows (Tested on Windows 11)
* **Python:** [Download Python 3.x](https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/)
* **Orban Loudness Meter:** [Download via Orban.com](https://www.orban.com/meter)

---

### Initial Setup (Orban Meter)
To allow the Python script to read your audio data, you must configure the Orban Loudness Meter to log its output:

1.  **Select Device:** Open Orban Loudness Meter, go to **Settings**, and select your audio device from the **Audio** dropdown.
2.  **Activate Metering:** Navigate to the **Meters** tab and click the ON button at the bottom.
3.  **Enable Logging:** Select **Write to log file** at the bottom right.

---

### How to Run
Once the Orban meter is running and logging data:

1.  **Open Terminal:** Navigate to the folder containing this program.
2.  **Launch Script:**
    ```powershell
    python main.py
    ```
3.  **Input Specifications:** Enter the required values for your specific headphones. 
    > *Note: These specs (Sensitivity/Impedance) are usually available online.*

---

### Contributing
Spot any issues or want to improve this? 
* Please submit a **Pull Request**!
* Feedback and bug reports are always welcome.

Commit message:

Clarify purpose of headphone decibel monitoring utility
Added a note about the purpose of the utility for safety.

README.md, after:

# Headphone-Decibelmeter

A Python-based utility that monitors and displays your headphone decibel in real-time by interfacing with the Orban Loudness Meter.

I mainly made this so that I can tell when I'm approaching unsafe listening levels. 

---

### Prerequisites
Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

* **Operating System:** Windows (Tested on Windows 11)
* **Python:** [Download Python 3.x](https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/)
* **Orban Loudness Meter:** [Download via Orban.com](https://www.orban.com/meter)

---

### Initial Setup (Orban Meter)
To allow the Python script to read your audio data, you must configure the Orban Loudness Meter to log its output:

1.  **Select Device:** Open Orban Loudness Meter, go to **Settings**, and select your audio device from the **Audio** dropdown.
2.  **Activate Metering:** Navigate to the **Meters** tab and click the ON button at the bottom.
3.  **Enable Logging:** Select **Write to log file** at the bottom right.

---

### How to Run
Once the Orban meter is running and logging data:

1.  **Open Terminal:** Navigate to the folder containing this program.
2.  **Launch Script:**
    ```powershell
    python main.py
    ```
3.  **Input Specifications:** Enter the required values for your specific headphones. 
    > *Note: These specs (Sensitivity/Impedance) are usually available online.*

---

### Contributing
Spot any issues or want to improve this? 
* Please submit a **Pull Request**!
* Feedback and bug reports are always welcome.
